Closes #4325: Add authenticated guest access feature to AZ CAS (#4326)
az-digital/az_quickstart: modules/custom/az_cas/README.md

# Quickstart CAS

Pre-configures contrib CAS module to work with University of Arizona WebAuth.

## Features

- Preconfigures CAS module for University of Arizona WebAuth
- Provides options to disable Drupal login form
- Provides options to disable password recovery
- Provides options to disable adding non-CAS users in admin interface
- Provides guest authentication functionality that allows CAS authentication without creating Drupal user accounts

## Guest Authentication

> The guest authentication feature allows site visitors to authenticate via Quickstart CAS without creating individual Drupal user accounts. This is useful for sites that need to restrict content to authenticated NetID users but don't need to store user-specific data or provide personalized experiences.

Author: ```suggestion
The guest authentication feature allows site visitors to authenticate via University of Arizona WebAuth without creating individual Drupal user accounts. This is useful for sites that need to restrict content to authenticated NetID users but don't need to store user-specific data or provide personalized experiences.
```

### Path-based Protection

The guest authentication feature allows you to protect specific paths, restricting access to authenticated NetID users without creating Drupal user accounts:

1. Configure the paths that should be restricted to authenticated NetID users in the AZ CAS settings
2. Anonymous users visiting these paths will be redirected to CAS login
3. After authentication, they'll be redirected back to the original path
4. No Drupal user account is created for these guest users

### Technical details

The guest authentication functionality works by:

1. Intercepting requests to protected paths and redirecting anonymous users to CAS login
2. Preventing user account creation during the CAS authentication process
3. Storing the CAS username in the session to maintain the authenticated state
4. Using the standard Drupal destination parameter to redirect users back to the original path
5. Ensuring that existing Drupal users can still log in normally with their CAS credentials

## Requirements

> - Drupal 9 or 10
> - CAS module
> - AZ Core module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Packaged Dependencies
- [CAS module](https://www.drupal.org/project/cas)
- [External Authentication module](https://www.drupal.org/project/externalauth)
```
